9949209|t|Genetic mapping of the copper toxicosis locus in Bedlington terriers to dog chromosome 10, in a region syntenic to human chromosome region 2p13-p16.
9949209|a|Abnormal hepatic copper accumulation is recognized as an inherited disorder in man, mouse, rat and dog. The major cause of hepatic copper accumulation in man is a dysfunctional ATP7B gene, causing Wilson disease (WD). Mutations in the ATP7B genes have also been demonstrated in mouse and rat. The ATP7B gene has been excluded in the much rarer human copper overload disease non-Indian childhood cirrhosis, indicating genetic heterogeneity. By investigating the common autosomal recessive copper toxicosis (CT) in Bedlington terriers, we have identified a new locus involved in progressive liver disease. We examined whether the WD gene ATP7B was also causative for CT by investigating the chromosomal co-localization of ATP7B and C04107, using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). C04107 is an anonymous microsatellite marker closely linked to CT. However, BAC clones containing ATP7B and C04107 mapped to the canine chromosome regions CFA22q11 and CFA10q26, respectively, demonstrating that WD cannot be homologous to CT. The copper transport genes CTR1 and CTR2 were also excluded as candidate genes for CT since they both mapped to canine chromosome region CFA11q22. 2-22. 5. A transcribed sequence identified from the C04107-containing BAC was found to be homologous to a gene expressed from human chromosome 2p13-p16, a region devoid of any positional candidate genes. 
9949209|ann| WD|Wilson disease
9949209|ann| CT|copper toxicosis



9950360|t|Molecular analysis of the APC gene in 205 families: extended genotype-phenotype correlations in FAP and evidence for the role of APC amino acid changes in colorectal cancer predisposition.
9950360|a|BACKGROUND/AIMS  The development of colorectal cancer and a variable range of extracolonic manifestations in familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) is the result of the dominant inheritance of adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) gene mutations. In this study, direct mutation analysis of the APC gene was performed to determine genotype-phenotype correlations for nine extracolonic manifestations and to investigate the incidence of APC mutations in non-FAP colorectal cancer. METHODS  The APC gene was analysed in 190 unrelated FAP and 15 non-FAP colorectal cancer patients using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis, the protein truncation test, and direct sequencing. RESULTS  Chain terminating signals were only identified in patients belonging to the FAP group (105 patients). Amino acid changes were identified in four patients, three of whom belonged to the non-FAP group of colorectal cancer patients. Genotype-phenotype correlations identified significant differences in the nature of certain extracolonic manifestations in FAP patients belonging to three mutation subgroups. CONCLUSIONS  Extended genotype-phenotype correlations made in this study may have the potential to determine the most appropriate surveillance and prophylactic treatment regimens for those patients with mutations associated with life threatening conditions. This study also provided evidence for the pathological nature of amino acid changes in APC associated with both FAP and non-FAP colorectal cancer patients.. 
9950360|ann| FAP|familial adenomatous polyposis
9950360|ann| APC|adenomatous polyposis coli

9634518|t|A European multicenter study of phenylalanine hydroxylase deficiency: classification of 105 mutations and a general system for genotype-based prediction of metabolic phenotype.
9634518|a|Phenylketonuria (PKU) and mild hyperphenylalaninemia (MHP) are allelic disorders caused by mutations in the gene encoding phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH). Previous studies have suggested that the highly variable metabolic phenotypes of PAH deficiency correlate with PAH genotypes. We identified both causative mutations in 686 patients from seven European centers. On the basis of the phenotypic characteristics of 297 functionally hemizygous patients, 105 of the mutations were assigned to one of four arbitrary phenotype categories. We proposed and tested a simple model for correlation between genotype and phenotypic outcome. The observed phenotype matched the predicted phenotype in 79% of the cases, and in only 5 of 184 patients was the observed phenotype more than one category away from that expected. Among the seven contributing centers, the proportion of patients for whom the observed phenotype did not match the predicted phenotype was 4% -23% (P <. 0001), suggesting that differences in methods used for mutation detection or phenotype classification may account for a considerable proportion of genotype-phenotype inconsistencies. Our data indicate that the PAH-mutation genotype is the main determinant of metabolic phenotype in most patients with PAH deficiency. In the present study, the classification of 105 PAH mutations may allow the prediction of the biochemical phenotype in > 10, 000 genotypes, which may be useful for the management of hyperphenylalaninemia in newborns. 
9634518|ann| PKU|Phenylketonuria
9634518|ann| MHP|mild hyperphenylalaninemia	
9634518|ann| PAH|phenylalanine hydroxylase	


9563950|t|Disruption of splicing regulated by a CUG-binding protein in myotonic dystrophy.
9563950|a|Myotonic dystrophy (DM) is caused by a CTG expansion in the 3 untranslated region of the DM gene. One model of DM pathogenesis suggests that RNAs from the expanded allele create a gain-of-function mutation by the inappropriate binding of proteins to the CUG repeats. Data presented here indicate that the conserved heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein, CUG-binding protein (CUG-BP), may mediate the trans-dominant effect of the RNA. CUG-BP was found to bind to the human cardiac troponin T (cTNT) pre-messenger RNA and regulate its alternative splicing. Splicing of cTNT was disrupted in DM striated muscle and in normal cells expressing transcripts that contain CUG repeats. Altered expression of genes regulated posttranscriptionally by CUG-BP therefore may contribute to DM pathogenesis.. 
9563950|ann| DM|Myotonic dystrophy


9674903|t|Maternal disomy and Prader-Willi syndrome consistent with gamete complementation in a case of familial translocation (3;15) (p25;q11.2).
9674903|a|Maternal uniparental disomy (UPD) for chromosome 15 is responsible for an estimated 30% of cases of Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS). We report on an unusual case of maternal disomy 15 in PWS that is most consistent with adjacent-1 segregation of a paternal t (3; 15) (p25; q11. 2) with simultaneous maternal meiotic nondisjunction for chromosome 15. The patient (J. B.), a 17-year-old white male with PWS, was found to have 47 chromosomes with a supernumerary, paternal der (15) consisting of the short arm and the proximal long arm of chromosome 15, and distal chromosome arm 3p. The t (3; 15) was present in the balanced state in the patients father and a sister. Fluorescent in situ hybridization analysis demonstrated that the PWS critical region resided on the derivative chromosome 3 and that there was no deletion of the PWS region on the normal pair of 15s present in J. B. Methylation analysis at exon alpha of the small nuclear ribonucleoprotein-associated polypeptide N (SNRPN) gene showed a pattern characteristic of only the maternal chromosome 15 in J. B. Maternal disomy was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction analysis of microsatellite repeats at the gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor beta3 subunit (GABRB3) locus. A niece (B. B.) with 45 chromosomes and the derivative 3 but without the der (15) demonstrated a phenotype consistent with that reported for haploinsufficiency of distal 3 p. Uniparental disomy associated with unbalanced segregation of non-Robertsonian translocations has been reported previously but has not, to our knowledge, been observed in a case of PWS. Furthermore, our findings are best interpreted as true gamete complementation resulting in maternal UPD 15 and PWS 
9674903|ann| UPD|uniparental disomy	
9674903|ann| PWS|Prader-Willi syndrome



9863607|t|Segregation distortion in myotonic dystrophy.
9863607|a|Myotonic dystrophy (DM) is an autosomal dominant disease which, in the typical pedigree, shows a three generation anticipation cascade. This results in infertility and congenital myotonic dystrophy (CDM) with the disappearance of DM in that pedigree. The concept of segregation distortion, where there is preferential transmission of the larger allele at the DM locus, has been put forward to explain partially the maintenance of DM in the population. In a survey of DM in Northern Ireland, 59 pedigrees were ascertained. Sibships where the status of all the members had been identified were examined to determine the transmission of the DM expansion from affected parents to their offspring. Where the transmitting parent was male, 58. 3% of the offspring were affected, and in the case of a female transmitting parent, 68. 7% were affected. Studies on meiotic drive in DM have shown increased transmission of the larger allele at the DM locus in non-DM heterozygotes for CTGn. This study provides further evidence that the DM expansion tends to be transmitted preferentially.
9863607|ann| DM|myotonic dystrophy
9863607|ann| CDM|congenital myotonic dystrophy


9443866|t|Ataxia-telangiectasia: identification and detection of founder-effect mutations in the ATM gene in ethnic populations.
9443866|a|To facilitate the evaluation of ATM heterozygotes for susceptibility to other diseases, such as breast cancer, we have attempted to define the most common mutations and their frequencies in ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) homozygotes from 10 ethnic populations. Both genomic mutations and their effects on cDNA were characterized. Protein-truncation testing of the entire ATM cDNA detected 92 (66%) truncating mutations in 140 mutant alleles screened. The haplotyping of patients with identical mutations indicates that almost all of these represent common ancestry and that very few spontaneously recurring ATM mutations exist. Assays requiring minimal amounts of genomic DNA were designed to allow rapid screening for common ethnic mutations. These rapid assays detected mutations in 76% of Costa Rican patients (3), 50% of Norwegian patients (1), 25% of Polish patients (4), and 14% of Italian patients (1), as well as in patients of Amish/Mennonite and Irish English backgrounds. Additional mutations were observed in Japanese, Utah Mormon, and African American patients. These assays should facilitate screening for A-T heterozygotes in the populations studied.. 
9443866|ann| A-T|Ataxia-telangiectasia

9668171|t|Somatic instability of the CTG repeat in mice transgenic for the myotonic dystrophy region is age dependent but not correlated to the relative intertissue transcription levels and proliferative capacities.
9668171|a|A (CTG) nexpansion in the 3-untranslated region (UTR) of the DM protein kinase gene (DMPK) is responsible for causing myotonic dystrophy (DM). Major instability, with very large expansions between generations and high levels of somatic mosaicism, is observed in patients. There is a good correlation between repeat size (at least in leucocytes), clinical severity and age of onset. The trinucleotide repeat instability mechanisms involved in DM and other human genetic diseases are unknown. We studied somatic instability by measuring the CTG repeat length at several ages in various tissues of transgenic mice carrying a (CTG) 55expansion surrounded by 45 kb of the human DM region, using small-pool PCR. These mice have been shown to reproduce the intergenerational and somatic instability of the 55 CTG repeat suggesting that surrounding sequences and the chromatin environment are involved in instability mechanisms. As observed in some of the tissues of DM patients, there is a tendency for repeat length and somatic mosaicism to increase with the age of the mouse. Furthermore, we observed no correlation between the somatic mutation rate and tissue proliferation capacity. The somatic mutation rates in different tissues were also not correlated to the relative inter-tissue difference in transcriptional levels of the three genes (DMAHP, DMPK and 59) surrounding the repeat.. 
9668171|ann| DM|myotonic dystrophy


9463314|t|ATM mutations and phenotypes in ataxia-telangiectasia families in the British Isles: expression of mutant ATM and the risk of leukemia, lymphoma, and breast cancer.
9463314|a|We report the spectrum of 59 ATM mutations observed in ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) patients in the British Isles. Of 51 ATM mutations identified in families native to the British Isles, 11 were founder mutations, and 2 of these 11 conferred a milder clinical phenotype with respect to both cerebellar degeneration and cellular features. We report, in two A-T families, an ATM mutation (7271T-- > G) that may be associated with an increased risk of breast cancer in both homozygotes and heterozygotes (relative risk 12. 7; P =. 0025), although there is a less severe A-T phenotype in terms of the degree of cerebellar degeneration. This mutation (7271T-- > G) also allows expression of full-length ATM protein at a level comparable with that in unaffected individuals. In addition, we have studied 18 A-T patients, in 15 families, who developed leukemia, lymphoma, preleukemic T-cell proliferation, or Hodgkin lymphoma, mostly in childhood. A wide variety of ATM mutation types, including missense mutations and in-frame deletions, were seen in these patients. We also show that 25% of all A-T patients carried in-frame deletions or missense mutations, many of which were also associated with expression of mutant ATM protein. 
9463314|ann| A-T|ataxia-telangiectasia

9790667|t|A novel Arg362Ser mutation in the sterol 27-hydroxylase gene (CYP27): its effects on pre-mRNA splicing and enzyme activity.
9790667|a|A novel C to A mutation in the sterol 27-hydroxylase gene (CYP27) was identified by sequencing amplified CYP27 gene products from a patient with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX). The mutation changed the adrenodoxin cofactor binding residue 362Arg to 362Ser (CGT 362Arg to AGT 362Ser), and was responsible for deficiency in the sterol 27-hydroxylase activity, as confirmed by expression of mutant cDNA into COS-1 cells. Quantitative analysis showed that the expression of CYP27 gene mRNA in the patient represented 52. 5% of the normal level. As the mutation occurred at the penultimate nucleotide of exon 6 (-2 position of exon 6-intron 6 splice site) of the gene, we hypothesized that the mutation may partially affect the normal splicing efficiency in exon 6 and cause alternative splicing elsewhere, which resulted in decreased transcript in the patient. Transfection of constructed minigenes, with or without the mutation, into COS-1 cells confirmed that the mutant minigene was responsible for a mRNA species alternatively spliced at an activated cryptic 5 splice site 88 bp upstream from the 3 end of exon 6. Our data suggest that the C to A mutation at the penultimate nucleotide of exon 6 of the CYP27 gene not only causes the deficiency in the sterol 27-hydroxylase activity, but also partially leads to alternative pre-mRNA splicing of the gene. To our knowledge, this is the first report regarding effects on pre-mRNA splicing of a mutation at the -2 position of a 5 splice site. 
9790667|ann| CTX|cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis


9702690|t|A Japanese family with adrenoleukodystrophy with a codon 291 deletion: a clinical, biochemical, pathological, and genetic report.
9702690|a|We report a Japanese family with adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) with a three base pair deletion (delGAG 291) in the ALD gene. A variety of phenotypes were observed within this family. While the proband (patient 1) was classified as having a rare intermediate type of adult cerebral and cerebello-brain stem forms, his younger brother (patient 2) and nephew (patient 3) had a childhood ALD type. Another nephew (patient 4) of patient 1 was classified as having an adolescent form. The tau level in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in patient 1 was as high as that of patients with Alzheimers disease (AD). His brain magnetic resonance image (MRI) showed abnormalities in the bilateral cerebellar hemispheres and brain stem, but not in the cerebral white matter, where marked reductions of the cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism were clearly demonstrated by positron emission tomography (PET). In patients 2 and 3, the autopsy findings showed massive demyelination of the cerebral white matter with sparing of the U-fibers, compatible with the findings of childhood ALD. Oleic and erucic acids (Lorenzos Oil) were administered to patients 1 and 4, but sufficient effectiveness was not obtained. The findings in this family suggest that delGAG291 is part of the cause of Japanese ALD with phenotypic variations. Moreover, although the scale of the study is limited, there is a possibility that PET can detect an insidious lesion which is undetectable by computed tomogram (CT) or MRI analysis, and that the higher level of tau reflects the process of neuronal degeneration in ALD. Lorenzos Oil should be given in the early stage.. 
9702690|ann| ALD|adrenoleukodystrophy
9702690|ann| AD|Alzheimers disease

9618166|t|Two frequent missense mutations in Pendred syndrome.
9618166|a|Pendred syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by early childhood deafness and goiter. A century after its recognition as a syndrome by Vaughan Pendred, the disease gene (PDS) was mapped to chromosome 7q22-q31. 1 and, recently, found to encode a putative sulfate transporter. We performed mutation analysis of the PDS gene in patients from 14 Pendred families originating from seven countries and identified all mutations. The mutations include three single base deletions, one splice site mutation and 10 missense mutations. One missense mutation (L236P) was found in a homozygous state in two consanguineous families and in a heterozygous state in five additional non-consanguineous families. Another missense mutation (T416P) was found in a homozygous state in one family and in a heterozygous state in four families. Pendred patients in three non-consanguineous families were shown to be compound heterozygotes for L236P and T416P. In total, one or both of these mutations were found in nine of the 14 families analyzed. The identification of two frequent PDS mutations will facilitate the molecular diagnosis of Pendred syndrome. 
9618166|ann| PDS|Pendred syndrome


9427148|t|Aspartylglucosaminuria among Palestinian Arabs.
9427148|a|Aspartylglucosaminuria (AGU) is a rare disorder of glycoprotein metabolism caused by the deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme aspartylglucosaminidase (AGA). AGU is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait and occurs with a high frequency in Finland because of a founder effect. While very few patients with AGU have been reported from non-Finnish origin, we diagnosed the disorder in 8 patients originating from 3 unrelated families, all Palestinian Arabs from the region of Jerusalem. The clinical diagnosis of AGU is often difficult, in particular early in the course of the disease, and most of the patients are diagnosed after the age of 5 years. However, since these patients excrete early large amounts of aspartylglucosamine in urine, biochemical screening is easy by urine chromatography.. 
9427148|ann| AGU|Aspartylglucosaminuria


9467011|t|Mutation spectrum and genotype-phenotype analyses in Cowden disease and Bannayan-Zonana syndrome, two hamartoma syndromes with germline PTEN mutation.
9467011|a|The tumour suppressor gene PTEN, which maps to 10q23. 3 and encodes a 403 amino acid dual specificity phosphatase (protein tyrosine phosphatase; PTPase), was shown recently to play a broad role in human malignancy. Somatic PTEN deletions and mutations were observed in sporadic breast, brain, prostate and kidney cancer cell lines and in several primary tumours such as endometrial carcinomas, malignant melanoma and thyroid tumours. In addition, PTEN was identified as the susceptibility gene for two hamartoma syndromes  Cowden disease (CD; MIM 158350) and Bannayan-Zonana (BZS) or Ruvalcaba-Riley-Smith syndrome (MIM 153480). Constitutive DNA from 37 CD families and seven BZS families was screened for germline PTEN mutations. PTEN mutations were identified in 30 of 37 (81%) CD families, including missense and nonsense point mutations, deletions, insertions, a deletion/insertion and splice site mutations. These mutations were scattered over the entire length of PTEN, with the exception of the first, fourth and last exons. A hot spot for PTEN mutation in CD was identified in exon 5 that contains the PTPase core motif, with 13 of 30 (43%) CD mutations identified in this exon. Seven of 30 (23%) were within the core motif, the majority (five of seven) of which were missense mutations, possibly pointing to the functional significance of this region. Germline PTEN mutations were identified in four of seven (57%) BZS families studied. Interestingly, none of these mutations was observed in the PTPase core motif. It is also worthy of note that a single nonsense point mutation, R233X, was observed in the germline DNA from two unrelated CD families and one BZS family. Genotype-phenotype studies were not performed on this small group of BZS families. However, genotype-phenotype analysis inthe group of CD families revealed two possible associations worthy of follow-up in independent analyses. The first was an association noted in the group of CD families with breast disease. A correlation was observed between the presence/absence of a PTEN mutation and the type of breast involvement (unaffected versus benign versus malignant). Specifically and more directly, an association was also observed between the presence of a PTEN mutation and malignant breast disease. Secondly, there appeared to be an interdependent association between mutations upstream and within the PTPase core motif, the core motif containing the majority of missense mutations, and the involvement of all major organ systems (central nervous system, thyroid, breast, skin and gastrointestinal tract). However, these observations would need to be confirmed by studying a larger number of CD families. 
9467011|ann| CD|Cowden disease
9467011|ann| BZS|Bannayan-Zonana syndrome


9831355|t|I1307K APC and hMLH1 mutations in a non-Jewish family with hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer.
9831355|a|We describe a French Canadian hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) kindred which carries a novel truncating mutation in hMLH1. Interestingly, the I1307K APC polymorphism, associated with an increased risk of colorectal cancer, is also present in this family. The I1307K polymorphism has previously only been identified in individuals of self-reported Ashkenazi Jewish origins. In addition, in this family, there appears to be no relationship between the I1307K polymorphism and the presence or absence of cancer.. 
9831355|ann| HNPCC|hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer

9358014|t|Ethnic differences in the HFE codon 282 (Cys/Tyr) polymorphism.
9358014|a|Recent studies have shown that hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) is likely to be caused by homozygosity for a Cys282Tyr mutation in the HFE gene located 4. 5 Mb telomeric to HLA-A. Population studies of this polymorphism are facilitated by the fact that the Cys282Tyr mutation creates a Rsal restriction site. We have studied the codon 282 (Cys/Tyr) polymorphism in different ethnic groups. In agreement with previous observations the Tyr allele appeared to be rare or absent in Asiatic (Indian, Chinese) populations. The highest allele frequency (7. 5%) was found in Swedes. Saamis (2%) and Mordvinians (1. 8%) had significantly lower frequencies of the Tyr allele. Comparisons with allele frequencies based on prevalence estimates of HH showed some disagreements with the RFLP data, particularly in Finns. The newly described HFE marker provides a new approach to the screening of HH as well as studies of the relationship between the HFE Tyr allele and different disorders including cancer 
9358014|ann| HH|hereditary hemochromatosis

9382108|t|Risk reversals in predictive testing for Huntington disease.
9382108|a|The first predictive testing for Huntington disease (HD) was based on analysis of linked polymorphic DNA markers to estimate the likelihood of inheriting the mutation for HD. Limits to accuracy included recombination between the DNA markers and the mutation, pedigree structure, and whether DNA samples were available from family members. With direct tests for the HD mutation, we have assessed the accuracy of results obtained by linkage approaches when requested to do so by the test individuals. For six such individuals, there was significant disparity between the tests. Three went from a decreased risk to an increased risk, while in another three the risk was decreased. Knowledge of the potential reasons for these changes in results and impact of these risk reversals on both patients and the counseling team can assist in the development of strategies for the prevention and, where necessary, management of a risk reversal in any predictive testing program..
9382108|ann| HD|Huntington disease

9771706|t|A gene encoding a transmembrane protein is mutated in patients with diabetes mellitus and optic atrophy (Wolfram syndrome).
9771706|a|Wolfram syndrome (WFS; OMIM 222300) is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder defined by young-onset non-immune insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and progressive optic atrophy. Linkage to markers on chromosome 4p was confirmed in five families. On the basis of meiotic recombinants and disease-associated haplotypes, the WFS gene was localized to a BAC/P1 contig of less than 250 kb. Mutations in a novel gene (WFS1) encoding a putative transmembrane protein were found in all affected individuals in six WFS families, and these mutations were associated with the disease phenotype. WFS1 appears to function in survival of islet beta-cells and neurons.. 
9771706|ann| WFS|Wolfram syndrome

9472666|t|Molecular defects leading to human complement component C6 deficiency in an African-American family.
9472666|a|Complement component C6 deficiency (C6D) was diagnosed in a 16-year-old African-American male with meningococcal meningitis. The patients father and two brothers also had C6D, but gave no history of meningitis or other neisserial infection. By using exon-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR)/single-strand conformation polymorphism as a screening step and nucleotide sequencing of target exons, we determined that the proband was a compound heterozygote for two C6 gene mutations. The first, 1195delC located in exon 7, is a novel mutation, while the second, 1936delG in exon 12, has been described before to cause C6D in an unrelated African-American individual. Both mutations result in premature termination codons and C6 null alleles. Allele-specific PCR indicated that the probands two brothers also inherited the 1195delC mutation from their heterozygous mother and the 1936delG mutation from their homozygous father.. 
9472666|ann| C6D|C6 deficiency

9733027|t|Sperm DNA analysis in a Friedreich ataxia premutation carrier suggests both meiotic and mitotic expansion in the FRDA gene.
9733027|a|Friedreich ataxia is usually caused by an expansion of a GAA trinucleotide repeat in intron 1 of the FRDA gene. Occasionally, a fully expanded allele has been found to arise from a premutation of 100 or less triplet repeats. We have examined the sperm DNA of a premutation carrier. This mans leucocyte DNA showed one normal allele and one allele of approximately 100 repeats. His sperm showed an expanded allele in a tight range centering on a size of approximately 320 trinucleotide repeats. His affected son has repeat sizes of 1040 and 540. These data suggest that expansion occurs in two stages, the first during meiosis followed by a second mitotic expansion. We also show that in all informative carrier father to affected child transmissions, with the notable exception of the premutation carrier, the expansion size decreases.. 
9733027|ann| FRDA|Friedreich ataxia


9506545|t|Eye movement abnormalities correlate with genotype in autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type I.
9506545|a|We compared horizontal eye movements (visually guided saccades, antisaccades, and smooth pursuit) in control subjects (n = 14) and patients with three forms of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias type I spinocerebellar ataxias 1 and 2 (SCA1, n = 11; SCA2, n = 10) and SCA3/Machado-Joseph disease (MJD) (n = 16). In SCA1, saccade amplitude was significantly increased, resulting in hypermetria. The smooth pursuit gain was decreased. In SCA2, saccade velocity was markedly decreased. The percentage of errors in antisaccades was greatly increased and was significantly correlated with age at disease onset. In addition, a correlation between smooth pursuit gain and the number of trinucleotide repeats was found. In SCA3, gaze-evoked nystagmus was often present as was saccade hypometria and smooth pursuit gain was markedly decreased. Three major criteria, saccade amplitude, saccade velocity, and presence of gaze-evoked nystagmus, permitted the correct assignment of 90% of the SCA1, 90% of the SCA2, and 93% of the patients with SCA3 to their genetically confirmed patient group and, therefore, may help orient diagnoses of SCA1, SCA2, and SCA3 at early clinical stages of the diseases.. 
9506545|ann| MJD|Machado-Joseph disease


9288106|t|Clustering of missense mutations in the ataxia-telangiectasia gene in a sporadic T-cell leukaemia.
9288106|a|Ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) is a recessive multi-system disorder caused by mutations in the ATM gene at 11q22-q23 (ref. 3). The risk of cancer, especially lymphoid neoplasias, is substantially elevated in A-T patients and has long been associated with chromosomal instability. By analysing tumour DNA from patients with sporadic T-cell prolymphocytic leukaemia (T-PLL), a rare clonal malignancy with similarities to a mature T-cell leukaemia seen in A-T, we demonstrate a high frequency of ATM mutations in T-PLL. In marked contrast to the ATM mutation pattern in A-T, the most frequent nucleotide changes in this leukaemia were missense mutations. These clustered in the region corresponding to the kinase domain, which is highly conserved in ATM-related proteins in mouse, yeast and Drosophila. The resulting amino-acid substitutions are predicted to interfere with ATP binding or substrate recognition. Two of seventeen mutated T-PLL samples had a previously reported A-T allele. In contrast, no mutations were detected in the p53 gene, suggesting that this tumour suppressor is not frequently altered in this leukaemia. Occasional missense mutations in ATM were also found in tumour DNA from patients with B-cell non-Hodgkins lymphomas (B-NHL) and a B-NHL cell line. The evidence of a significant proportion of loss-of-function mutations and a complete absence of the normal copy of ATM in the majority of mutated tumours establishes somatic inactivation of this gene in the pathogenesis of sporadic T-PLL and suggests that ATM acts as a tumour suppressor. As constitutional DNA was not available, a putative hereditary predisposition to T-PLL will require further investigation.. 
9288106|ann| A-T|Ataxia-telangiectasia
9288106|ann| T-PLL|T-cell prolymphocytic leukaemia
9288106|ann| B-NHL|B-cell non-Hodgkins lymphomas

9580132|t|Identification of a novel nonsense mutation and a missense substitution in the vasopressin-neurophysin II gene in two Spanish kindreds with familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus.
9580132|a|Familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus (FNDI) is an autosomal dominant disease caused by deficiency in the antidiuretic hormone arginine vasopressin (AVP) encoded by the AVP-neurophysin II (AVP-NPII) gene on chromosome 20p13. In this study, we analyzed two families with FNDI using direct automated fluorescent, solid phase, single-stranded DNA sequencing of PCR-amplified AVP-NPII DNA. In one of the families, affected individuals presented a novel nonsense mutation in exon 3 of the gene, consisting in a G to T transition at nucleotide 2101, which produces a stop signal in codon 82 (Glu) of NPII. The premature termination eliminates part of the C-terminal domain of NPII, including a cysteine residue in position 85, which could be involved in the correct folding of the prohormone. In the second family, a G279A substitution at position -1 of the signal peptide was observed in all affected individuals. This missense mutation, which replaces Ala with Thr, is frequent among FNDI patients and is thought to reduce the efficiency of cleavage by signal peptidases.. 
9580132|ann| FNDI|Familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus

9714764|t|Cloning of a novel member of the low-density lipoprotein receptor family.
9714764|a|A gene encoding a novel transmembrane protein was identified by DNA sequence analysis within the insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) locus IDDM4 on chromosome 11q13. Based on its chromosomal position, this gene is a candidate for conferring susceptibility to diabetes. The gene, termed low-density lipoprotein receptor related protein 5 (LRP5), encodes a protein of 1615 amino acids that contains conserved modules which are characteristic of the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor family. These modules include a putative signal peptide for protein export, four epidermal growth factor (EGF) repeats with associated spacer domains, three LDL-receptor (LDLR) repeats, a single transmembrane spanning domain, and a cytoplasmic domain. The encoded protein has a unique organization of EGF and LDLR repeats; therefore, LRP5 likely represents a new category of the LDLR family. Both human and mouse LRP5 cDNAs have been isolated and the encoded mature proteins are 95% identical, indicating a high degree of evolutionary conservation.. 
9714764|ann| IDDM|insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus

9792409|t|ATM germline mutations in classical ataxia-telangiectasia patients in the Dutch population.
9792409|a|Germline mutations in the ATM gene are responsible for the autosomal recessive disorder ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T). In our study, we have determined the ATM mutation spectrum in 19 classical A-T patients, including some immigrant populations, as well as 12 of Dutch ethnic origin. Both the protein truncation test (PTT) and the restriction endonuclease fingerprinting (REF) method were used and compared for their detection efficiency, identifying 76% and 60% of the mutations, respectively. Most patients were found to be compound heterozygote. Seventeen mutations were distinct, of which 10 were not reported previously. Mutations are small deletions or point mutations frequently affecting splice sites. Moreover, a 16. 7-kb genomic deletion of the 3 end of the gene, most likely a result of recombination between two LINE elements, was identified. The most frequently found mutation, identified in three unrelated Turkish A-T individuals, was previously described to be a Turkish A-T founder mutation. The presence of a founder mutation among relatively small ethnic population groups in Western Europe could indicate a high carrier frequency in such communities. In patients of Dutch ethnic origin, however, no significant founder effect could be identified. The observed genetic heterogeneity including the relative high percentage of splice-site mutations had no reflection on the phenotype. All patients manifested classical A-T and increased cellular radioresistant DNA synthesis. 
9792409|ann| A-T|ataxia-telangiectasia

9674906|t|Schwartz-Jampel syndrome type 2 and Stuve-Wiedemann syndrome: a case for "lumping".
9674906|a|Recent studies demonstrated the existence of a genetically distinct, usually lethal form of the Schwartz-Jampel syndrome (SJS) of myotonia and skeletal dysplasia, which we called SJS type 2. This disorder is reminiscent of another rare condition, the Stuve-Wiedemann syndrome (SWS), which comprises campomelia at birth with skeletal dysplasia, contractures, and early death. To test for possible nosologic identity between these disorders, we reviewed the literature and obtained a follow-up of the only two surviving patients, one with SJS type 2 at age 10 years and another with SWS at age 7 years. Patients reported as having either neonatal SJS or SWS presented a combination of a severe, prenatal-onset neuromuscular disorder (with congenital joint contractures, respiratory and feeding difficulties, tendency to hyperthermia, and frequent death in infancy) with a distinct campomelic-metaphyseal skeletal dysplasia. The similarity of the clinical and radiographic findings is so extensive that these disorders appear to be a single entity. The follow-up observation of an identical and unique pattern of progressive bone dysplasia in the two patients (one with SJS type 2, one with SWS) surviving beyond infancy adds to the evidence in favor of identity. The hypothesis that SWS and SJS type 2 are the same disorder should be testable by molecular methods.. 
9674906|ann| SJS|Schwartz-Jampel syndrome
9674906|ann| SWS|Stuve-Wiedemann syndrome

9729124|t|Genomic structure of the human congenital chloride diarrhea (CLD) gene.
9729124|a|Congenital chloride diarrhea (CLD) is caused by mutations in a gene which encodes an intestinal anion transporter. We report here the complete genomic organization of the human CLD gene which spans approximately 39kb, and comprises 21 exons. All exon/intron boundaries conform to the GT/AG rule. An analysis of the putative promoter region sequence shows a putative TATA box and predicts multiple transcription factor binding sites. The genomic structure was determined using DNA from several sources including multiple large-insert libaries and genomic DNA from Finnish CLD patients and controls. Exon-specific primers developed in this study will facilitate mutation screening studies of patients with the disease. Genomic sequencing of a BAC clone H_RG364P16 revealed the presence of another, highly homologous gene 3 of the CLD gene, with a similar genomic structure, recently identified as the Pendred syndrome gene (PDS).. 
9729124|ann| CLD|congenital chloride diarrhea
9729124|ann| PDS|Pendred syndrome

9585605|t|Mutation analysis of UBE3A in Angelman syndrome patients.
9585605|a|Angelman syndrome (AS) is caused by chromosome 15q11-q13 deletions of maternal origin, by paternal uniparental disomy (UPD) 15, by imprinting defects, and by mutations in the UBE3A gene. UBE3A encodes a ubiquitin-protein ligase and shows brain-specific imprinting. Here we describe UBE3A coding-region mutations detected by SSCP analysis in 13 AS individuals or families. Two identical de novo 5-bp duplications in exon 16 were found. Among the other 11 unique mutations, 8 were small deletions or insertions predicted to cause frameshifts, 1 was a mutation to a stop codon, 1 was a missense mutation, and 1 was predicted to cause insertion of an isoleucine in the hect domain of the UBE3A protein, which functions in E2 binding and ubiquitin transfer. Eight of the cases were familial, and five were sporadic. In two familial cases and one sporadic case, mosaicism for UBE3A mutations was detected  in the mother of three AS sons, in the maternal grandfather of two AS first cousins, and in the mother of an AS daughter. The frequencies with which we detected mutations were 5 (14%) of 35 in sporadic cases and 8 (80%) of 10 in familial cases.. 
9585605|ann| AS|Angelman syndrome
9585605|ann| UPD|uniparental disomy

9360520|t|Autosomal dominant neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus associated with a missense mutation encoding Gly23-->Val in neurophysin II.
9360520|a|Autosomal dominant neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus (ADNDI) is an inherited disease caused by progressive degeneration of the magnocellular neurons of the hypothalamus leading to decreased ability to produce the hormone arginine vasopressin (AVP). Affected individuals are not symptomatic at birth, but usually develop diabetes insipidus at 1-6 yr of age. The genetic locus of the disease is the AVP-neurophysin II (NPII) gene, and mutations that cause ADNDI have been found in both the signal peptide of the prepro-AVP-NPII precursor and within NPII itself. An affected girl who presented at 9 months of age and her similarly affected younger brother and father were all found to have a novel missense mutation (G1758-- > T) encoding the amino acid substitution Gly23-- > Val within NPII. The mutation was confirmed by restriction endonuclease analysis. A T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging of the fathers pituitary gland demonstrates an attenuated posterior pituitary bright spot. This mutation may be valuable for developing models of dominantly inherited neurodegeneration, as the early age of onset of symptoms suggests that this mutation may be particularly deleterious to the magnocellular neuron.. 
9360520|ann| ADNDI|Autosomal dominant neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus

9709714|t|Reversal of severe hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and excellent neuropsychologic outcome in very-long-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase deficiency.
9709714|a|Very-long-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase (VLCAD) deficiency is a disorder of fatty acid beta oxidation that reportedly has high rates of morbidity and mortality. We describe the outcome of a 5-year-old girl with VLCAD deficiency who was first seen at 5 months of age with severe hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, hepatomegaly, encephalopathy, and hypotonia. Biochemical studies indicated VLCAD deficiency caused by a stable yet inactive enzyme. Molecular genetic analysis of her VLCAD gene revealed a T1372C (F458L) missense mutation and a 1668 ACAG 1669 splice site mutation. After initial treatment with intravenous glucose and carnitine, the patient has thrived on a low-fat diet supplemented with medium-chain triglyceride oil and carnitine and avoidance of fasting. Her ventricular hypertrophy resolved significantly over 1 year, and cognitively, she is in the superior range for age. Clinical recognition of VLCAD deficiency is important because it is one of the few directly treatable causes of cardiomyopathy in children.. 
9709714|ann| VLCAD|Very-long-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase

9600235|t|Mutations of the ATM gene detected in Japanese ataxia-telangiectasia patients: possible preponderance of the two founder mutations 4612del165 and 7883del5.
9600235|a|The ATM (A-T, mutated) gene on human chromosome 11q22. 3 has recently been identified as the gene responsible for the human recessive disease ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T). In order to define the types of disease-causing ATM mutations in Japanese A-T patients as well as to look for possible mutational hotspots, reverse-transcribed RNA derived from ten patients belonging to eight unrelated Japanese A-T families was analyzed for mutations by the restriction endonuclease fingerprinting method. As has been reported by others, mutations that lead to exon skipping or premature protein truncation were also predominant in our mutants. Six different mutations were identified on 12 of the 16 alleles examined. Four were deletions involving a loss of a single exon  exon 7, exon 16, exon 33 or exon 35. The others were minute deletions, 4649delA in exon 33 and 7883del5 in exon 55. The mutations 4612del165 and 7883del5 were found in more than two unrelated families; 44% (7 of 16) of the mutant alleles had one of the two mutations. The 4612del165 mutations in three different families were all ascribed to the same T-- > A substitution at the splice donor site in intron 33. Microsatellite genotyping around the ATM locus also indicated that a common haplotype was shared by the mutant alleles in both mutations. This suggests that these two founder mutations may be predominant among Japanese ATM mutant alleles. 
9600235|ann| A-T|ataxia-telangiectasia

9770531|t|Down-regulation of transmembrane carbonic anhydrases in renal cell carcinoma cell lines by wild-type von Hippel-Lindau transgenes.
9770531|a|To discover genes involved in von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) -mediated carcinogenesis, we used renal cell carcinoma cell lines stably transfected with wild-type VHL-expressing transgenes. Large-scale RNA differential display technology applied to these cell lines identified several differentially expressed genes, including an alpha carbonic anhydrase gene, termed CA12. The deduced protein sequence was classified as a one-pass transmembrane CA possessing an apparently intact catalytic domain in the extracellular CA module. Reintroduced wild-type VHL strongly inhibited the overexpression of the CA12 gene in the parental renal cell carcinoma cell lines. Similar results were obtained with CA9, encoding another transmembrane CA with an intact catalytic domain. Although both domains of the VHL protein contribute to regulation of CA12 expression, the elongin binding domain alone could effectively regulate CA9 expression. We mapped CA12 and CA9 loci to chromosome bands 15q22 and 17q21. 2 respectively, regions prone to amplification in some human cancers. Additional experiments are needed to define the role of CA IX and CA XII enzymes in the regulation of pH in the extracellular microenvironment and its potential impact on cancer cell growth. 
9770531|ann| VHL|von Hippel-Lindau

9385378|t|A novel common missense mutation G301C in the N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase gene in mucopolysaccharidosis IVA.
9385378|a|Mucopolysaccharidosis IVA (MPS IVA) is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder caused by a genetic defect in N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase (GALNS). In previous studies, we have found two common mutations in Caucasians and Japanese, respectively. To characterize the mutational spectrum in various ethnic groups, mutations in the GALNS gene in Colombian MPS IVA patients were investigated, and genetic backgrounds were extensively analyzed to identify racial origin, based on mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) lineages. Three novel missense mutations never identified previously in other populations and found in 16 out of 19 Colombian MPS IVA unrelated alleles account for 84. 2% of the alleles in this study. The G301C and S162F mutations account for 68. 4% and 10. 5% of mutations, respectively, whereas the remaining F69V is limited to a single allele. The skewed prevalence of G301C in only Colombian patients and haplotype analysis by restriction fragment length polymorphisms in the GALNS gene suggest that G301C originated from a common ancestor. Investigation of the genetic background by means of mtDNA lineages indicate that all our patients are probably of native American descent 
9385378|ann| MPS|mucopolysaccharidosis


9603435|t|W474C amino acid substitution affects early processing of the alpha-subunit of beta-hexosaminidase A and is associated with subacute G(M2) gangliosidosis.
9603435|a|Mutations in the HEXA gene, encoding the alpha-subunit of beta-hexosaminidase A (Hex A), that abolish Hex A enzyme activity cause Tay-Sachs disease (TSD), the fatal infantile form of G (M2) gangliosidosis, Type 1. Less severe, subacute (juvenile-onset) and chronic (adult-onset) variants are characterized by a broad spectrum of clinical manifestations and are associated with residual levels of Hex A enzyme activity. We identified a 1422 G-- > C (amino acid W474C) substitution in the first position of exon 13 of HEXA of a non-Jewish proband who manifested a subacute variant of G (M2) gangliosidosis. On the second maternally inherited allele, we identified the common infantile disease-causing 4-bp insertion, + TATC 1278, in exon 11. Pulse-chase analysis using proband fibroblasts revealed that the W474C-containing alpha-subunit precursor was normally synthesized, but not phosphorylated or secreted, and the mature lysosomal alpha-subunit was not detected. When the W474C-containing alpha-subunit was transiently co-expressed with the beta-subunit to produce Hex A (alphabeta) in COS-7 cells, the mature alpha-subunit was present, but its level was much lower than that from normal alpha-subunit transfections, although higher than in those cells transfected with an alpha-subunit associated with infantile TSD. Furthermore, the precursor level of the W474C alpha-subunit was found to accumulate in comparison to the normal alpha-subunit precursor levels. We conclude that the 1422 G-- > C mutation is the cause of Hex A enzyme deficiency in the proband. The resulting W474C substitution clearly interferes with alpha-subunit processing, but because the base substitution falls at the first position of exon 13, aberrant splicing may also contribute to Hex A deficiency in this proband.. 
9603435|ann| TSD|Tay-Sachs disease

9294109|t|Myotonic dystrophy protein kinase is involved in the modulation of the Ca2+ homeostasis in skeletal muscle cells.
9294109|a|Myotonic dystrophy (DM), the most prevalent muscular disorder in adults, is caused by (CTG) n-repeat expansion in a gene encoding a protein kinase (DM protein kinase; DMPK) and involves changes in cytoarchitecture and ion homeostasis. To obtain clues to the normal biological role of DMPK in cellular ion homeostasis, we have compared the resting [Ca2 +] i, the amplitude and shape of depolarization-induced Ca2 + transients, and the content of ATP-driven ion pumps in cultured skeletal muscle cells of wild-type and DMPK [-/-] knockout mice. In vitro-differentiated DMPK [-/-] myotubes exhibit a higher resting [Ca2 +] i than do wild-type myotubes because of an altered open probability of voltage-dependent l-type Ca2 + and Na + channels. The mutant myotubes exhibit smaller and slower Ca2 + responses upon triggering by acetylcholine or high external K +. In addition, we observed that these Ca2 + transients partially result from an influx of extracellular Ca2 + through the l-type Ca2 + channel. Neither the content nor the activity of Na +/K + ATPase and sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2 + -ATPase are affected by DMPK absence. In conclusion, our data suggest that DMPK is involved in modulating the initial events of excitation-contraction coupling in skeletal muscle.. 
9294109|ann| DM|Myotonic dystrophy

9618170|t|Insertional mutation by transposable element, L1, in the DMD gene results in X-linked dilated cardiomyopathy.
9618170|a|X-linked dilated cardiomyopathy (XLDCM) is a clinical phenotype of dystrophinopathy which is characterized by preferential myocardial involvement without any overt clinical signs of skeletal myopathy. To date, several mutations in the Duchenne muscular dystrophy gene, DMD, have been identified in patients with XLDCM, but a pathogenic correlation of these cardiospecific mutations in DMD with the XLDCM phenotype has remained to be elucidated. We report here the identification of a unique de novo L1 insertion in the muscle exon 1 in DMD in three XLDCM patients from two unrelated Japanese families. The insertion was a 5-truncated form of human L1 inversely integrated in the 5-untranslated region in the muscle exon 1, which affected the transcription or the stability of the muscle form of dystrophin transcripts but not that of the brain or Purkinje cell form, probably due to its unique site of integration. We speculate that this insertion of an L1 sequence in DMD is responsible for some of the population of Japanese patients with XLDCM.. 
9618170|ann| DMD|Duchenne muscular dystrophy
9618170|ann| XLDCM |X-linked dilated cardiomyopathy

9521421|t|Molecular heterogeneity in mucopolysaccharidosis IVA in Australia and Northern Ireland: nine novel mutations including T312S, a common allele that confers a mild phenotype.
9521421|a|Mucopolysaccharidosis IVA (MPS IVA) is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder caused by a genetic defect in N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase (GALNS). Previous studies of patients from a British-Irish population showed that the I113F mutation is the most common single mutation among MPS IVA patients and produces a severe clinical phenotype. We studied mutations in the GALNS gene from 23 additional MPS IVA patients (15 from Australia, 8 from Northern Ireland), with various clinical phenotypes (severe, 16 cases; intermediate, 4 cases; mild, 3 cases). We found two common mutations that together accounted for 32% of the 44 unrelated alleles in these patients. One is the T312S mutation, a novel mutation found exclusively in milder patients. The other is the previously described I113F that produces a severe phenotype. The I113F and T312S mutations accounted for 8 (18%) and 6 (14%) of 44 unrelated alleles, respectively. The relatively high residual GALNS activity seen when the T312S mutant cDNA is overexpressed in mutant cells provides an explanation for the mild phenotype in patients with this mutation. The distribution and relative frequencies of the I113F and T312S mutations in Australia corresponded to those observed in Northern Ireland and are unique to these two populations, suggesting that both mutations were probably introduced to Australia by Irish migrants during the 19th century. Haplotype analysis using 6 RFLPs provides additional data that the I113F mutation originated from a common ancestor. The other 9 novel mutations identified in these 23 patients were each limited to a single family. These data provide further evidence for extensive allelic heterogeneity in MPS IVA in British-Irish patients and provide evidence for their transmission to Australia by British-Irish migrants.. 
9521421|ann| MPS|mucopolysaccharidosis

9852676|t|Further evidence for a major ancient mutation underlying myotonic dystrophy from linkage disequilibrium studies in the Japanese population.
9852676|a|The myotonic dystrophy (DM) mutation is an unstable (CTG) n repeat, present at a copy number of 5-37 repeats on normal chromosomes but amplified to 50-3000 copies on DM chromosomes. Previous findings in Caucasian populations of a DM founder chromosome raise a question about the molecular events involved in the expansion mutation. To investigate whether a founder chromosome for the DM mutation exists in the Japanese population, we genotyped families using polymorphic markers near the (CTG) n repeat region and constructed haplotypes. Six different haplotypes were found and DM alleles were always haplotype A. To find an origin of the (CTG) n repeat mutation and to investigate the mechanism of the expansion mutation in the Japanese population we have studied 90 Japanese DM families comprising 190 affected and 130 unaffected members. The results suggest that a few common ancestral mutations in both Caucasian and Japanese populations have originated by expansion of an ancestral n = 5 repeat to n = 19-37 copies. These data support multistep models of triplet repeat expansion that have been proposed for both DM and Friedreichs ataxia.. 
9852676|ann| DM|myotonic dystrophy

9888388|t|Systematic analysis of coproporphyrinogen oxidase gene defects in hereditary coproporphyria and mutation update.
9888388|a|Hereditary coproporphyria (HC) is an acute hepatic porphyria with autosomal dominant inheritance caused by deficient activity of coproporphyrinogen III oxidase (CPO). Clinical manifestations of the disease are characterized by acute attacks of neurological dysfunction often precipitated by drugs, fasting, cyclical hormonal changes, or infectious diseases. Skin photosensitivity may also be present. The seven exons, the exon/intron boundaries and part of 3 noncoding sequence of the CPO gene were systematically analyzed by an exon-by-exon denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) strategy followed by direct sequencing in seven unrelated heterozygous HC patients from France, Holland, and Czech Republic. Seven novel mutations and two new polymorphisms were detected. Among these mutations  two are missense (G197W, W427R), two are nonsense (Q306X, Q385X), two are small deletions (662de14bp; 1168del3bp removing a glycine at position 390), and one is a splicing mutation (IVS1-15c-- > g) which creates a new acceptor splice site. The pathological significance of the point mutations G197W, W427R, and the in-frame deletion 390delGly were assessed by their respective expression in a prokaryotic system using site-directed mutagenesis. These mutations resulted in the absence or a dramatic decrease of CPO activity. The two polymorphisms were localized in noncoding part of the gene  1) a C/G polymorphism in the promotor region, 142 bp upstream from the transcriptional initiation site (-142C/G), and 2) a 6 bp deletion polymorphism in the 3 noncoding part of the CPO gene, 574 bp downstream of the last base of the normal termination codon (+ 574 delATTCTT). Five intragenic dimorphisms are now well characterized and the high degree of allelic heterogeneity in HC is demonstrated with seven new different mutations making a total of nineteen CPO gene defects reported so far.. 
9888388|ann| HC|hereditary coproporphyria

9585611|t|Genotype-phenotype correlations in attenuated adenomatous polyposis coli.
9585611|a|Germ-line mutations of the tumor suppressor APC are implicated in attenuated adenomatous polyposis coli (AAPC), a variant of familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP). AAPC is recognized by the occurrence of < 100 colonic adenomas and a later onset of colorectal cancer (age > 40 years). The aim of this study was to assess genotype-phenotype correlations in AAPC families. By protein-truncation test (PTT) assay, the entire coding region of the APC gene was screened in affected individuals from 11 AAPC kindreds, and their phenotypic differences were examined. Five novel germ-line APC mutations were identified in seven kindreds. Mutations were located in three different regions of the APC gene  (1) at the 5 end spanning exons 4 and 5, (2) within exon 9, and (3) at the 3 distal end of the gene. Variability in the number of colorectal adenomas was most apparent in individuals with mutations in region 1, and upper-gastrointestinal manifestations were more severe in them. In individuals with mutations in either region 2 or region 3, the average number of adenomas tended to be lower than those in individuals with mutations in region 1, although age at diagnosis was similar. In all AAPC kindreds, a predominance of right-sided colorectal adenomas and rectal polyp sparing was observed. No desmoid tumors were found in these kindreds. Our data suggest that, in AAPC families, the location of the APC mutation may partially predict specific phenotypic expression. This should help in the design of tailored clinical-management protocols in this subset of FAP patients.. 
9585611|ann| AAPC|attenuated adenomatous polyposis coli
9585611|ann| FAP|familial adenomatous polyposis 

9724771|t|The APC variants I1307K and E1317Q are associated with colorectal tumors, but not always with a family history.
9724771|a|Classical familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) is a high-penetrance autosomal dominant disease that predisposes to hundreds or thousands of colorectal adenomas and carcinoma and that results from truncating mutations in the APC gene. A variant of FAP is attenuated adenomatous polyposis coli, which results from germ-line mutations in the 5 and 3 regions of the APC gene. Attenuated adenomatous polyposis coli patients have " multiple " colorectal adenomas (typically fewer than 100) without the florid phenotype of classical FAP. Another group of patients with multiple adenomas has no mutations in the APC gene, and their phenotype probably results from variation at a locus, or loci, elsewhere in the genome. Recently, however, a missense variant of APC (I1307K) was described that confers an increased risk of colorectal tumors, including multiple adenomas, in Ashkenazim. We have studied a set of 164 patients with multiple colorectal adenomas and/or carcinoma and analyzed codons 1263-1377 (exon 15G) of the APC gene for germ-line variants. Three patients with the I1307K allele were detected, each of Ashkenazi descent. Four patients had a germ-line E1317Q missense variant of APC that was not present in controls; one of these individuals had an unusually large number of metaplastic polyps of the colorectum. There is increasing evidence that there exist germ-line variants of the APC gene that predispose to the development of multiple colorectal adenomas and carcinoma, but without the florid phenotype of classical FAP, and possibly with importance for colorectal cancer risk in the general population.. 
9724771|ann| FAP|familial adenomatous polyposis 

9689113|t|A mouse model of severe von Willebrand disease: defects in hemostasis and thrombosis.
9689113|a|von Willebrand factor (vWf) deficiency causes severe von Willebrand disease in humans. We generated a mouse model for this disease by using gene targeting. vWf-deficient mice appeared normal at birth; they were viable and fertile. Neither vWf nor vWf propolypeptide (von Willebrand antigen II) were detectable in plasma, platelets, or endothelial cells of the homozygous mutant mice. The mutant mice exhibited defects in hemostasis with a highly prolonged bleeding time and spontaneous bleeding events in approximately 10% of neonates. As in the human disease, the factor VIII level in these mice was reduced strongly as a result of the lack of protection provided by vWf. Defective thrombosis in mutant mice was also evident in an in vivo model of vascular injury. In this model, the exteriorized mesentery was superfused with ferric chloride and the accumulation of fluorescently labeled platelets was observed by intravital microscopy. We conclude that these mice very closely mimic severe human von Willebrand disease and will be very useful for investigating the role of vWf in normal physiology and in disease models.. 
9689113|ann| vWf|von Willebrand factor 

9448273|t|The von Hippel-Lindau tumor suppressor gene is required for cell cycle exit upon serum withdrawal.
9448273|a|The inactivation of the von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) tumor suppressor gene predisposes affected individuals to the human VHL cancer syndrome and is associated with sporadic renal cell carcinomas (RCC) and brain hemangioblastomas. VHL-negative 786-0 RCC cells are tumorigenic in nude mice which is suppressed by the reintroduction of VHL. Remarkably, this occurs without affecting the growth rate and cell cycle profile of these cells in culture. The 786-0 cell line, like many cancer cells, fails to exit the cell cycle upon serum withdrawal. Here, it is shown that reintroduction of the wild-type VHL gene restores the ability of VHL-negative RCC cancer cells to exit the cell cycle and enter G0/quiescence in low serum. Both VHL-positive and VHL-negative RCC cells exit the cell cycle by contact inhibition. The cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, p27, accumulates upon serum withdrawal, only in the presence of VHL, as a result of the stabilization of the protein. We propose that the loss of wild-type VHL gene results in a specific cellular defect in serum-dependent growth control, which may initiate tumor formation. This is corrected by the reintroduction of wild-type VHL, implicating VHL as the first tumor suppressor involved in the regulation of cell cycle exit, which is consistent with its gatekeeper function in the kidney.. 
9448273|ann| VHL|von Hippel-Lindau

9848786|t|Human complement factor H deficiency associated with hemolytic uremic syndrome.
9848786|a|This study reports on six cases of deficiency in the human complement regulatory protein Factor H (FH) in the context of an acute renal disease. Five of the cases were observed in children presenting with idiopathic hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS). Two of the children exhibited a homozygous deficiency characterized by the absence of the 150-kD form of Factor H and the presence, upon immunoblotting, of the 42-kD Factor H-like protein 1 (FHL-1) and other FH-related protein (FHR) bands. Southern blot and PCR analysis of DNA of one patient with homozygous deficiency ruled out the presence of a large deletion of the FH gene as the underlying defect for the deficiency. The other four children presented with heterozygous deficiency and exhibited a normal immunoblotting pattern of proteins of the FH family. Factor H deficiency is the only complement deficiency associated with HUS. These observations suggest a role for FH and/or FH receptors in the pathogenesis of idiopathic HUS..
9848786|ann| HUS|hemolytic uremic syndrome

9521325|t|Genetic basis and molecular mechanism for idiopathic ventricular fibrillation.
9521325|a|Ventricular fibrillation causes more than 300, 000 sudden deaths each year in the USA alone. In approximately 5-12% of these cases, there are no demonstrable cardiac or non-cardiac causes to account for the episode, which is therefore classified as idiopathic ventricular fibrillation (IVF). A distinct group of IVF patients has been found to present with a characteristic electrocardiographic pattern. Because of the small size of most pedigrees and the high incidence of sudden death, however, molecular genetic studies of IVF have not yet been done. Because IVF causes cardiac rhythm disturbance, we investigated whether malfunction of ion channels could cause the disorder by studying mutations in the cardiac sodium channel gene SCN5A. We have now identified a missense mutation, a splice-donor mutation, and a frameshift mutation in the coding region of SCN5A in three IVF families. We show that sodium channels with the missense mutation recover from inactivation more rapidly than normal and that the frameshift mutation causes the sodium channel to be non-functional. Our results indicate that mutations in cardiac ion-channel genes contribute to the risk of developing IVF.. 
9521325|ann| IVF|idiopathic ventricular fibrillation

9336417|t|Susceptibility to ankylosing spondylitis in twins: the role of genes, HLA, and the environment.
9336417|a|OBJECTIVE  To determine the relative effects of genetic and environmental factors in susceptibility to ankylosing spondylitis (AS). METHODS  Twins with AS were identified from the Royal National Hospital for Rheumatic Diseases database. Clinical and radiographic examinations were performed to establish diagnoses, and disease severity was assessed using a combination of validated scoring systems. HLA typing for HLA-B27, HLA-B60, and HLA-DR1 was performed by polymerase chain reaction with sequence-specific primers, and zygosity was assessed using microsatellite markers. Genetic and environmental variance components were assessed with the program Mx, using data from this and previous studies of twins with AS. RESULTS  Six of 8 monozygotic (MZ) twin pairs were disease concordant, compared with 4 of 15 B27-positive dizygotic (DZ) twin pairs (27%) and 4 of 32 DZ twin pairs overall (12. 5%). Nonsignificant increases in similarity with regard to age at disease onset and all of the disease severity scores assessed were noted in disease-concordant MZ twins compared with concordant DZ twins. HLA-B27 and B60 were associated with the disease in probands, and the rate of disease concordance was significantly increased among DZ twin pairs in which the co-twin was positive for both B27 and DR1. Additive genetic effects were estimated to contribute 97% of the population variance. CONCLUSION  Susceptibility to AS is largely genetically determined, and the environmental trigger for the disease is probably ubiquitous. HLA-B27 accounts for a minority of the overall genetic susceptibility to AS. 
9336417|ann| AS|ankylosing spondylitis

9731533|t|The APCI1307K allele and cancer risk in a community-based study of Ashkenazi Jews.
9731533|a|Mutations in APC are classically associated with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), a highly penetrant autosomal dominant disorder characterized by multiple intestinal polyps and, without surgical intervention, the development of colorectal cancer (CRC). APC is a tumour-suppressor gene, and somatic loss occurs in tumours. The germline T-to-A transversion responsible for the APC I1307K allele converts the wild-type sequence to a homopolymer tract (A8) that is genetically unstable and prone to somatic mutation. The I1307K allele was found in 6. 1% of unselected Ashkenazi Jews and higher proportions of Ashkenazim with family or personal histories of CRC (ref. 2). To evaluate the role of I1307K in cancer, we genotyped 5, 081 Ashkenazi volunteers in a community survey. Risk of developing colorectal, breast and other cancers were compared between genotyped I1307K carriers and non-carriers and their first-degree relatives. 
9731533|ann| FAP|familial adenomatous polyposis
9731533|ann| CRC|colorectal cancer

9425239|t|Progression of somatic CTG repeat length heterogeneity in the blood cells of myotonic dystrophy patients.
9425239|a|The genetic basis of myotonic dystrophy (DM) is the expansion of an unstable CTG repeat in the 34 UTR of the DM protein kinase gene on chromosome 19. One of the principal features of the DM mutation is an extraordinarily high level of somatic mosaicism, due to an extremely high degree of somatic instability both within and between different tissues. This instability appears to be biased towards further expansion and continuous throughout the life of an individual, features that could be associated with the progressive nature of the disease. Although increasing measured allele size between patients clearly correlates with an increased severity of symptoms and an earlier age of onset, this correlation is not precise and measured allele length cannot be used as an accurate predictor of age of onset. In order to further characterize the dynamics of DM CTG repeat somatic instability, we have studied repeat length changes over time in 111 myotonic dystrophy patients with varying clinical severity and CTG repeat size over time intervals of 1-7 years. We have found a direct progression of the size heterogeneity over time related to initial CTG repeat size and the time interval and always biased towards further expansion. Attempts to mathematically model the dynamics have proved only partially successful suggesting that individual specific genetic and/or environmental factors also play a role in somatic mosaicism.. 
9425239|ann| DM|myotonic dystrophy

9927033|t|Human MLH1 deficiency predisposes to hematological malignancy and neurofibromatosis type 1.
9927033|a|Heterozygous germ-line mutations in the DNA mismatch repair genes lead to hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer. The disease susceptibility of individuals who constitutionally lack both wild-type alleles is unknown. We have identified three offspring in a hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer family who developed hematological malignancy at a very early age, and at least two of them displayed signs of neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1). DNA sequence analysis and allele-specific amplification in two siblings revealed a homozygous MLH1 mutation (C676T-- > Arg226Stop). Thus, a homozygous germ-line MLH1 mutation and consequent mismatch repair deficiency results in a mutator phenotype characterized by leukemia and/or lymphoma associated with neurofibromatosis type 1.. 
9927033|ann| NF1|neurofibromatosis type 1

9800909|t|Are Dp71 and Dp140 brain dystrophin isoforms related to cognitive impairment in Duchenne muscular dystrophy?
9800909|a|Molecular study and neuropsychological analysis were performed concurrently on 49 patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) in order to find a molecular explanation for the cognitive impairment observed in most DMD patients. Complete analysis of the dystrophin gene was performed to define the localization of deletions and duplications in relation to the different DMD promoters. Qualitative analysis of the Dp71 transcript and testing for the specific first exon of Dp140 were also carried out. Neuropsychological analysis assessed verbal and visuospatial intelligence, verbal memory, and reading skills. Comparison of molecular and psychometric findings demonstrated that deletions and duplications that were localized in the distal part of the gene seemed to be preferentially associated with cognitive impairment. Two altered Dp71 transcripts and two deleted Dp140 DNA sequences were found in four patients with severe cerebral dysfunction. These findings suggest that some sequences located in the distal part of the gene and, in particular, some DMD isoforms expressed in the brain may be related to the cognitive impairment associated with DMD.. 
9800909|ann| DMD|Duchenne muscular dystrophy

9861003|t|A genome-wide search for chromosomal loci linked to mental health wellness in relatives at high risk for bipolar affective disorder among the Old Order Amish.
9861003|a|Bipolar affective disorder (BPAD; manic-depressive illness) is characterized by episodes of mania and/or hypomania interspersed with periods of depression. Compelling evidence supports a significant genetic component in the susceptibility to develop BPAD. To date, however, linkage studies have attempted only to identify chromosomal loci that cause or increase the risk of developing BPAD. To determine whether there could be protective alleles that prevent or reduce the risk of developing BPAD, similar to what is observed in other genetic disorders, we used mental health wellness (absence of any psychiatric disorder) as the phenotype in our genome-wide linkage scan of several large multigeneration Old Order Amish pedigrees exhibiting an extremely high incidence of BPAD. We have found strong evidence for a locus on chromosome 4p at D4S2949 (maximum GENEHUNTER-PLUS nonparametric linkage score = 4. 05, P = 5. 22 x 10 (-4); SIBPAL Pempirical value < 3 x 10 (-5)) and suggestive evidence for a locus on chromosome 4q at D4S397 (maximum GENEHUNTER-PLUS nonparametric linkage score = 3. 29, P = 2. 57 x 10 (-3); SIBPAL Pempirical value < 1 x 10 (-3)) that are linked to mental health wellness. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that certain alleles could prevent or modify the clinical manifestations of BPAD and perhaps other related affective disorders.
9861003|ann| BPAD|bipolar affective disorder

932197|t|Hereditary deficiency of the fifth component of complement in man. I. Clinical, immunochemical, and family studies.
932197|a|The first recognized human kindred with hereditary deficiency of the fifth component of complement (C5) is described. The proband, a 20-year-old black female with systemic lupus erythematosus since age 11, lacked serum hemolytic complement activity, even during remission. C5 was undetectable in her serum by both immunodiffusion and hemolytic assays. Other complement components were normal during remission of lupus, but C1, C4, C2, and C3 levels fell during exacerbations. A younger half-sister, who had no underlying disease, was also found to lack immunochemically detectable C5. By hemolytic assay, she exhibited 1-2% of the normal serum C5 level and normal concentrations of other complement components. C5 levels of other family members were either normal or approximately half-normal, consistent with autosomal codominant inheritance of the gene determining C5 deficiency. Normal hemolytic titers were restored to both homozygous C5-deficient (C5D) sera by addition of highly purified human C5. In specific C5 titrations, however, it was noted that when limited amounts of C5 were assayed in the presence of low dilutions of either C5D serum, curving rather than linear dose-response plots were consistently obtained, suggesting some inhibitory effect. Further studies suggested that low dilutions of C5D serum contain a factor (or factors) interfering at some step in the hemolytic assay of C5, rather than a true C5 inhibitor or inactivator. Of clinical interest are (a) the documentation of membranous glomerulonephritis, vasculitis, and arthritis in an individual lacking C5 (and its biologic functions), and (b) a remarkable propensity to bacterial infections in the proband, even during periods of low-dose or alternate-day corticosteroid therapy. Other observations indicate that the C5D state is compatible with normal coagulation function and the capacity to mount a neutrophilic leukocytosis during pyogenic infection.. 
932197|ann| C5D|C5-deficient

9439660|t|Detection of heterozygous carriers of the ataxia-telangiectasia (ATM) gene by G2 phase chromosomal radiosensitivity of peripheral blood lymphocytes.
9439660|a|In ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) patients, mutations in a single gene, ATM, result in an autosomal recessive syndrome that embraces a variety of clinical features and manifests extreme radiosensitivity and a strong pre-disposition to malignancy. Heterozygotes for the ATM gene have no clinical expression of A-T but may be cancer prone with a moderate increase in in vitro radiosensitivity. We performed a blind chromosomal analysis on G2-phase lymphocytes from 7 unrelated A-T patients, 13 obligate A-T heterozygotes (parents of the patients), and 14 normal controls following X-irradiation with 1 Gy in order to evaluate this cytogenetic method as a tool for detection of ATM carriers. Both A-T homozygotes and heterozygotes showed significantly increased levels of radiation-induced chromatid damage relative to that of normal controls. These results show that the G2-phase chromosomal radiosensitivity assay can be used for the detection of A-T heterozygotes. In combination with molecular genetic analyses, this test may be of value in studies of familial and sporadic cancers aimed at determination of the potential involvement of ATM mutations in tumor risk or development.. 
9439660|ann| A-T|ataxia-telangiectasia

9744473|t|The R496H mutation of arylsulfatase A does not cause metachromatic leukodystrophy.
9744473|a|Deficiency of arylsulfatase A (ARSA) enzyme activity causes metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD). A number of ARSA gene mutations responsible for MLD have been identified. Recently, the R496H mutation of ARSA was proposed to be a cause of MLD (Draghia et al., 1997). We have investigated the R496H mutation and found this mutation at a relatively high frequency in an African American population (f = 0. 09, n = 61 subjects). The ARSA enzyme activity in subjects with and without the R496H mutation was determined and found to be normal. It is therefore concluded that the R496H mutation of ARSA does not negatively influence the activity of ARSA and is not a cause of MLD 
9744473|ann| MLD|metachromatic leukodystrophy

9888390|t|Coincidence of two novel arylsulfatase A alleles and mutation 459+1G>A within a family with metachromatic leukodystrophy: molecular basis of phenotypic heterogeneity.
9888390|a|In a family with three siblings, one developed classical late infantile metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD), fatal at age 5 years, with deficient arylsulfatase A (ARSA) activity and increased galactosylsulfatide (GS) excretion. The two other siblings, apparently healthy at 12 (1/2) and 15 years, respectively, and their father, apparently healthy as well, presented ARSA and GS values within the range of MLD patients. Mutation screening and sequence analysis disclosed the involvement of three different ARSA mutations being the molecular basis of intrafamilial phenotypic heterogeneity. The late infantile patient inherited from his mother the frequent 0-type mutation 459 + 1G > A, and from his father a novel, single basepair microdeletion of guanine at nucleotide 7 in exon 1 (7delG). The two clinically unaffected siblings carried the maternal mutation 459 + 1G > A and, on their paternal allele, a novel cytosine to thymidine transition at nucleotide 2435 in exon 8, resulting in substitution of alanine 464 by valine (A464V). The fathers genotype thus was 7delG/A464V. Mutation A464V was not found in 18 unrelated MLD patients and 50 controls. A464V, although clearly modifying ARSA and GS levels, apparently bears little significance for clinical manifestation of MLD, mimicking the frequent ARSA pseudodeficiency allele. Our results demonstrate that in certain genetic conditions MLD-like ARSA and GS values need not be paralleled by clinical disease, a finding with serious diagnostic and prognostic implications. Moreover, further ARSA alleles functionally similar to A464V might exist which, together with 0-type mutations, may cause pathological ARSA and GS levels, but not clinical outbreak of the disease.. 
9888390|ann| MLD|metachromatic leukodystrophy

941901|t|Low levels of beta hexosaminidase A in healthy individuals with apparent deficiency of this enzyme.
941901|a|Appreciable beta hexosaminidase A (hex A) activity has been detected in cultured skin fibroblasts and melanoma tissue from healthy individuals previously reported as having deficiency of hex A activity indistinguishable from that of patients with Tay-Sachs disease (TSD). Identification and quantitation of hex A, amounting to 3. 5% -6. 9% of total beta hexosaminidase activity, has been obtained by cellulose acetate gel electrophoresis, DEAE-cellulose ion-exchange chromatography, radial immunodiffusion, and radioimmunoassay. Previous family studies suggested that these individuals may be compound heterozygotes for the common mutant TSD gene and a rare (allelic) mutant gene. Thus, the postulated rate mutant gene appears to code for the expression of low amounts of hex A. Heterozygotes for the rare mutant may be indistinguishable from heterozygotes for the common TSD mutant. However, direct visualization and quantitation of hex A by the methods described may prevent false-positive prenatal diagnosis of TSD in fetuses having the incomplete hex A deficiency of the type described in the four healthy individuals 
941901|ann| TSD|Tay-Sachs disease

9590284|t|A mouse model for Prader-Willi syndrome imprinting-centre mutations.
9590284|a|Imprinting in the 15q11-q13 region involves an imprinting centre (IC), mapping in part to the promoter and first exon of SNRPN. Deletion of this IC abolishes local paternally derived gene expression and results in Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS). We have created two deletion mutations in mice to understand PWS and the mechanism of this IC. Mice harbouring an intragenic deletion in Snrpn are phenotypically normal, suggesting that mutations of SNRPN are not sufficient to induce PWS. Mice with a larger deletion involving both Snrpn and the putative PWS-IC lack expression of the imprinted genes Zfp127 (mouse homologue of ZNF127), Ndn and Ipw, and manifest several phenotypes common to PWS infants. These data demonstrate that both the position of the IC and its role in the coordinate expression of genes is conserved between mouse and human, and indicate that the mouse is a suitable model system in which to investigate the molecular mechanisms of imprinting in this region of the genome.. 
9590284|ann| PWS|Prader-Willi syndrome

9843038|t|Identification of a novel mutation of the CPO gene in a Japanese hereditary coproporphyria family.
9843038|a|Hereditary coproporphyria (HCP) is an autosomal dominant disease characterized by a deficiency of coproporphyrinogen oxidase (CPO) caused by a mutation in the CPO gene. Only 11 mutations of the gene have been reported in HCP patients. We report another mutation in a Japanese family. Polymerase chain reaction-single strand conformational polymorphism and direct sequence analyses demonstrated a C to T substitution in exon 1 of the CPO gene at nucleotide position 85, which lies in the putative presequence for targeting to mitochondria. This mutation changes the codon for glutamine to a termination codon at amino acid position 29. MaeI restriction analysis showed two other carriers in the family. The C-T mutation is located within a recently proposed putative alternative translation initiation codon (TIC-1), supporting that TIC-1 is the real TIC rather than TIC-2.. 
9843038|ann| HCP|hereditary coproporphyria

9529364|t|Identification of constitutional WT1 mutations, in patients with isolated diffuse mesangial sclerosis, and analysis of genotype/phenotype correlations by use of a computerized mutation database.
9529364|a|Constitutional mutations of the WT1 gene, encoding a zinc-finger transcription factor involved in renal and gonadal development, are found in most patients with Denys-Drash syndrome (DDS), or diffuse mesangial sclerosis (DMS) associated with pseudohermaphroditism and/or Wilms tumor (WT). Most mutations in DDS patients lie in exon 8 or exon 9, encoding zinc finger 2 or zinc finger 3, respectively, with a hot spot (R394W) in exon 9. We analyzed a series of 24 patients, 10 with isolated DMS (IDMS), 10 with DDS, and 4 with urogenital abnormalities and/or WT. We report WT1 heterozygous mutations in 16 patients, 4 of whom presented with IDMS. One male and two female IDMS patients with WT1 mutations underwent normal puberty. Two mutations associated with IDMS are different from those described in DDS patients. No WT1 mutations were detected in the six other IDMS patients, suggesting genetic heterogeneity of this disease. We analyzed genotype/phenotype correlations, on the basis of the constitution of a WT1 mutation database of 84 germ-line mutations, to compare the distribution and type of mutations, according to the different symptoms. This demonstrated (1) the association between mutations in exons 8 and 9 and DMS; (2) among patients with DMS, a higher frequency of exon 8 mutations among 46, XY patients with female phenotype than among 46, XY patients with sexual ambiguity or male phenotype; and (3) statistically significant evidence that mutations in exons 8 and 9 preferentially affect amino acids with different functions.. 
9529364|ann| DDS|Denys-Drash syndrome
9529364|ann| DMS|diffuse mesangial sclerosis
9529364|ann| WT|Wilms tumor
9529364|ann| IDMS|isolated diffuse mesangial sclerosis

9391889|t|Paternal transmission of congenital myotonic dystrophy.
9391889|a|We report a rare case of paternally transmitted congenital myotonic dystrophy (DM). The proband is a 23 year old, mentally retarded male who suffers severe muscular weakness. He presented with respiratory and feeding difficulties at birth. His two sibs suffer from childhood onset DM. Their late father had the adult type of DM, with onset around 30 years. Only six other cases of paternal transmission of congenital DM have been reported recently. We review the sex related effects on transmission of congenital DM. Decreased fertility of males with adult onset DM and contraction of the repeat upon male transmission contribute to the almost absent occurrence of paternal transmission of congenital DM. Also the fathers of the reported congenitally affected children showed, on average, shorter CTG repeat lengths and hence less severe clinical symptoms than the mothers of children with congenital DM. We conclude that paternal transmission of congenital DM is rare and preferentially occurs with onset of DM past 30 years in the father.. 
9391889|ann| DM|myotonic dystrophy

9949197|t|Distribution of emerin and lamins in the heart and implications for Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy.
9949197|a|Emerin is a nuclear membrane protein which is missing or defective in Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD). It is one member of a family of lamina-associated proteins which includes LAP1, LAP2 and lamin B receptor (LBR). A panel of 16 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) has been mapped to six specific sites throughout the emerin molecule using phage-displayed peptide libraries and has been used to localize emerin in human and rabbit heart. Several mAbs against different emerin epitopes did not recognize intercalated discs in the heart, though they recognized cardiomyocyte nuclei strongly, both at the rim and in intranuclear spots or channels. A polyclonal rabbit antiserum against emerin did recognize both nuclear membrane and intercalated discs but, after affinity purification against a pure-emerin band on a western blot, it stained only the nuclear membrane. These results would not be expected if immunostaining at intercalated discs were due to a product of the emerin gene and, therefore, cast some doubt upon the hypothesis that cardiac defects in EDMD are caused by absence of emerin from intercalated discs. Although emerin was abundant in the membranes of cardiomyocyte nuclei, it was absent from many non-myocyte cells in the heart. This distribution of emerin was similar to that of lamin A, a candidate gene for an autosomal form of EDMD. In contrast, lamin B1 was absent from cardiomyocyte nuclei, showing that lamin B1 is not essential for localization of emerin to the nuclear lamina. Lamin B1 is also almost completely absent from skeletal muscle nuclei. In EDMD, the additional absence of lamin B1 from heart and skeletal muscle nuclei which already lack emerin may offer an alternative explanation of why these tissues are particularly affected.. 
9949197|ann| EDMD|Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy
